# Secure integration and harmonization of an OMOP CDM cluster
Repository for code created during solo project of 3rd semester Computational Modelling & Simulation masters program.

## Abstract
The introduction of common data models (CDM) in healthcare has allowed the integration of data from a wide variety of healthcare institutions into larger datasets, which has greatly benefited clinical research and decision making. However, despite these significant advances, much room for improvement still exists . Due to confidentiality concerns, healthcare data is subject to stringent data privacy requirements and thus personal data is either removed or de-identified prior to integration into larger datasets. Because it is quite common for any given individual to visit a variety of healthcare organizations, each of which may be collecting data and participating in integration efforts, they may show up in integrated databases multiple times but with different identifiers, effectively seen as independent data points. This can lead to statistical bias and inaccurate interpretation of results. Therefore, there is a need to develop methods alongside data integration processes that can identify linked entities and merge their identifiers despite a lack of concrete, personally identifiable information. In this study, the problem of duplicated data is addressed using a synthetic instance of the CDM developed through the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP). To identify duplicates, the Fellegi-Sunter scoring scheme using the expectation maximization method for parameter estimation is implemented and measured. The implementation resulted in high specificity scores but lower sensitivities when compared to similar works.

